[MUSIC]
In this video, we're going to have a look
at different types of merge query.
Back in our training schedule, we still
have to pull the instructor name through.
Now typically we would do this using
an index match or V lookup function, but
we can actually create a much more
efficient solution using a merge query.
So what is a merge query?
In the previous videos, we saw examples
of how we could use append queries
to stack data sets on top of each other.
In this example, we actually want
to pull data from another table and
stack it next to this table.
And for that, we use a merge query.
Let's have a look at an example.
So let's say in table A.
I have a list of staff required to
complete the online training and
the names of their managers.
In table B.
I have the staff who have completed
the online training and their are results.
While the data sets are not identical,
you can see there is some overlap.
When I come to do the merge query, I have
some choices for how I merge these tables.
Let's say for example, that I only
want to get a list of people who
are required to do the training and
did the training and their results.
What I'm looking for is only the data
where the values appear in both tables.
This is called an inner join.
Another common scenario is I may wish
to get a list of all the staff who
are required to do the training and
the results of those who actually did.
In other words, everything from
table A and the values from table B.
I have a match.
That is called a left outer join.
And of course you could do the opposite
and do a Right Outer Join.
So that would be all the staff
who had done the training and
the names of the managers from
table A where there was a match.
Another scenario is I may decide,
I just need a list of people
required to do the training
who haven't done the training.
In other words, all the values in table A,
where there isn't a match in table B.
That is called a left anti join.
And very similarly,
we can have a right anti join.
So that's all the values in table B
that don't have a match in table A.
And finally, if you wanted to
get everything from both tables,
you could use a full outer join.
Now we have a better idea of the options.
Let's go and create a merge query.
We could create a brand new query.
But for this scenario,
we all we really need to do is update
our existing training shedule query.
To update the query, you can either click
into the table, come to your data tab.
Open your queries and connections panel
come to core shed you'll right-click and
press edit.
Or if you have the new
query within just click
into the data somewhere come up
to the query ribbon and click.
Here's our core shedule query.
But what we want to do now is merge
it with our instructors all query.
To do this, we're going to
come to the home ribbon, and
we're going to find
the merge queries button.
And much like the append queries,
if you click the drop down.
I could create a brand new merge query,
or I can change this query.
We want to change this one.
So we're going to click merge queries.
And it opens up my merge query window.
Now we don't have a left and a right here.
What we have instead is a top and
a bottom, but
the top correlates with the left and
the bottom correlates with the right.
So just keep that in mind.
So our left Table is going
to be our course schedule.
And we're going to click the drop down.
And our right to table is
going to be instructors all.
The column headings do not need
to match for a merge query.
We do need to tell it which values
we want to match from each table.
So in course schedule,
we're going to click instructor code.
Add instructors all,
we're going to click instructors ID.
What is going to try and
do is match the values in each data set.
The default type of query
is a left outer join.
But if I click the drop down, you'll see
there all the other options I mentioned.
If you're in a slightly older version,
you won't see that drop down but
don't worry it's going to do a left
[INAUDIBLE] join.We're now going to click
Ok, and it is now joined the two tables.
But you'll see it hasn't pulled
through any columns yet,
it's just connected to
the table.So the next
step is come up to the top [INAUDIBLE] And
click the expand button.
And we can now choose which
columns we want to pull across.
We don't want all of them.
So I'm going to uncheck Select All,
and just choose instructor name.
One other thing.
It will by default, put the table
name in front of the column name and
that's not something we want.
So we're going to uncheck that.
And we're going to say okay.
And there's an instructor name for
all the records where it found a match.
Because we didn't have a code here,
it didn't find a match.
We're going to quickly resequenced.
I'm going to just click on instructor name
and drag it across to be left of room.
And now we're ready to close and load.
So back on the home ribbon,
just click the top, Close and Load.
And there is our updated query
with the instructor names.
The benefit of doing it this way is
it is a far more efficient solution
than a lookup, and
it is typically more automated as well.
In the next video,
we'll look at how to do merge queries
with some other join options.